Code	Name	Description
CSC 102	Computers for Today	Basic computer concepts including hardware, operating systems, application software (word processing, spreadsheets, and database manager), networks, and the Internet. Internet protocols, Internet, intranets and the Web, Web development, multimedia, r...
CSC 115	Introduction to Computer Technology	An introduction for non-science students to fundamental concepts in computers and technology including information representation, development and application of algorithms, network and communication principles, and critical evaluation of technology...
CSC 117	Computer Technology Lab	A laboratory experience illustrating the principles and topics in CSC 115. Not open to students who have taken CSC 119. (scientific analysis)
CSC 119	Computer Technology Concepts	An introduction to the concepts of representation, storage, usage, retrieval and protection of data in the digital world. (Flexible Core) Not open to students who have taken CSC 115.
CSC 126	Introduction to Computer Science	Computing and information processing. Basic computer structure. Programming methodology: analysis, design, documentation, implementation, and evaluation. An algorithmic approach to problem-solving. Computer solutions of several numerical and non-num...
CSC 135	Introduction to Information Systems	A hands-on laboratory course in the effective use of technology tools for problem solving. Students will understand how copyright laws apply to software and the need to acknowledge material from outside sources, including online material and the work...
CSC 140	Computational Problem Solving in Python	An introduction to computer programming using python, including basic computational concepts, and analytical techniques for problem solving. in liberal arts, physical and social science fields, and lab applications. Course includes an overview of the...
CSC 211	Intermediate Programming	A second course in programming. Programming techniques emphasizing reliability, maintainability, and reusability. Module design and multi-file programs. Abstract data types. Data representation and conversion. Addresses, pointers, and dynamic storage...
CSC 215	Assistive Technology for Universal Applications	An overview of the technological needs and the laws for accommodating persons with disabilities; descriptions of the technologies for persons with disabilities (blindness/visual impairments, audiological disabilities, physical disabilities, and cogni...
CSC 220	Computer Organization	An introduction to computer systems, organizations, their underlying subsystems and architectures. Specific topics include binary, octal, decimal and hexadecimal number systems, unsigned and signed integers, instruction set architectures, instruction...
CSC 221	Networking and Security	An introduction to computer networking and communication basics, incorporating principles and practice in secure computing. Specific topics include data communication basics, network structures, IP, TCP, application protocols, confidentiality, integr...
CSC 223	Cybersecurity Fundamentals	Fundamentals of cybersecurity including offensive and defensive skills developed through hands-on experience. Course includes identification and analysis of common cybersecurity vulnerabilities for potential attacks. This course provides a solid foun...
CSC 225	Introduction to Web Development and the Internet	An introduction to the Internet and Web page creation and management, using a markup language, a scripting language, a current editor, and a graphics program. Topics include incorporating graphics, sound, video and proper Web page development concept...
CSC 226	Web Database Applications	This course offers students a mixture of theoretical and practical information on creating Web database applications. Students will learn open source technologies that are often combined to develop these applications. Student will model and design...
CSC 227	Introductory Computer Game Programming	This course covers the process of game development. It also discusses the importance of testing, and how developers use the results of testing to improve their games. Students will be expected to develop simple games, or portions of games, using ap...
CSC 228	Discrete Mathematical Structures for Computer Science	A discrete mathematics course where concepts of discrete structures will be applied to computer science. Topics include elementary set theory, logic, functions, relations, Boolean algebra, elements of graph theory, matrix representation of graphs, ma...
CSC 229	Introduction to High Performance Computing	An introduction to High Performance Computing. Parallel memory architectures and programming models with an emphasis on the MPI programming model. Issues related to designing parallel programs will be discussed. Examples of how to parallelize simp...
CSC 235	Robotic Explorations	This course focuses on the theory behind robots and how it applies to existing platforms in the lab and in the field. Students will be introduced to the fundamentals of robotics. Concepts such as robot architectures, sensing, control, locomotion, a...
CSC 237	Introduction to Computational Linguistics	This course will introduce students to the software development techniques foundational to work in computationallinguistics and natural language processing. Relying heavily on the Python language, students will write programs to process text stored i...
CSC 245	Introduction to Data Science	Basic concepts in data science. Topics covered are data collection, integration, management, modeling, analysis, visualization, prediction and decision making, data security and data privacy. Important statistical methods will be explored. Emphasis w...
CSC 250	Serious Game Development	This course covers the process of serious game development including research games. It also discusses principles from game-based learning. Students will be expected to develop simple games, or portions of games, using appropriate game developing t...
CSC 270	Introduction to Scientific Computing	An introductory programming course with an emphasis on real-world engineering and scientific problem-solving. Operators, input/output, mathematical functions, control, structures, and arrays. Introduction to programming numerical techniques. Topics m...
CSC 300	Information Structures for Business	This course covers basic data structures. Topics covered in this course include classes, exception handling, dynamic memory management, and fundamental data structures including vectors, linked lists, and queues. Standard library classes will be used...
CSC 300X	Information Structures for Business	This course covers basic data structures. Topics covered in this course include classes, exception handling, dynamic memory management, and fundamental data structures including vectors, linked lists, and queues. Standard library classes will be used...
CSC 305	Operating Systems Programming Laboratory	Operating systems in practice. History of OS development. Methods of memory, process, file, and device management for specific OS. User command line interface. Developing software applications in OS environment.Prerequisite: (CSC 220 or ENS 362) and...
CSC 315	Introduction to Database Systems	This course is an introduction to database systems with an emphasis on database design and implementation, business data modeling and analysis using modern data modeling languages and tools (i.e. Entity Relationship or UML models), as well as SQL que...
CSC 326	Data Structures	Fundamental data structures and their implementations, including lists, stacks, queues, priority queues and trees. Recursion, ADTs (abstract data types), algorithms for searching and sorting, basic algorithm analysis.
CSC 330	Object-Oriented Software Design	Large-scale software design issues, object-oriented design paradigms, encapsulation, polymorphism, inheritance, re-usability, and specifics of an object-oriented language and associated development tools. Students will be required to implement a subs...
CSC 332	Operating Systems I	Introduction to operating systems. Task management and scheduling. Process and data management. Interrupts. Resource allocation and management. Time sharing. Deadlock mutual exclusion, and synchronization. Memory management. (liberal arts and science...
CSC 346	Digital Systems Design	Introduction to design methods for digital logic, circuits and systems. Boolean algebra, logic circuit minimization techniques, analysis and design of combinational and sequential logic circuits, memory elements, arithmetic and logic unit, finite sta...
CSC 347	Digital Systems Laboratory	The design and implementation of circuitry found in modern computers. Design and implementation of various combinational and sequential digital circuits including arithmetic/logic units and game machine. Construction and debugging techniques using br...
CSC 382	Analysis of Algorithms	Algorithm development, including running time analysis and correctness arguments. Topics include: asymptotic notation and complexity analysis; use of mathematical techniques to determine the computational complexity of algorithms such as sorting and...
CSC 401	Virtual and Augmented Reality	Introduces Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) technologies. Students will explore the foundational concepts and practical skills necessary to create immersive and interactive virtual and augmented reality applications. Topics covered are...
CSC 412	Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery	This course is designed to provide students with a background in fundamental and advanced concepts, tools and methodology in machine learning as well as their applicability to real world problems. An overview of algorithms used in machine learning a...
CSC 421	Internet Data Communications and Security	An introduction to the Internet, Internet applications, and computer networking. The course examines the key concepts, principles, and technologies that make today’s Internet possible. More specifically, it covers Internet design and implementation,...
CSC 424	Advanced Database Systems	Extend the knowledge of database systems to cover non-traditional databases. Topics covered may include: Parallel systems for Online Transaction Processing (OLTP), column stores for Online Analytical Processing (OLAP), transaction management, concu...
CSC 425	Shared Memory Parallel Computing	Parallel computing based on shared memory platform. Emphasis will be on shared memory architecture, OpenMP and GPU programming, analysis of correctness and performance of an OpenMP and GPU program, and algorithms that can be used on shared memory sys...
CSC 426	Applied Cryptography	An introduction to cryptography and its applications. The course examines cryptographic primitives that are building blocks of various cryptographic applications. The cryptographic primitives include pseudorandom functions, symmetric cryptography, ha...
CSC 427	Advanced Computer Game Programming	This course covers advanced principles and practices of computer game programming. The student will be exposed to the different aspects of game development including 2D and 3D asset creation, rendering and animation, sprites, AI for games, programmi...
CSC 429	Advanced High Performance Computing	Foundations of parallel computing. Algorithms for shared- and distributed-memory systems. Parallel computer architectures, performance, decomposition techniques for parallel algorithms, parallel programming models such as Open MP and MPI models, an...
CSC 430	Software Engineering	Developing large-scale reliable software systems. Theory and methodology for the design and implementation of software systems from requirements analysis through design and implementation, testing, integration, and maintenance. Tools and techniques f...
CSC 435	Advanced Data Communications	Concepts of circuit, packet, and message switched networks; local, campus, metropolitan, and wide area networks; concepts of data transmission; the emerging telecommunications industry, private networks, and integrated services digital networks.
CSC 436	Modern Web Development	A project-based course focusing on providing students with applied learning experiences that mirror how web developers operate in a modern professional environment. Students will individually develop a number of web applications leveraging public API...
CSC 438	Mobile Application Development	The principles of mobile app development. Topics wil include memory management; user interface building; input methods; data handling; GIS, network techniques and URL loading; and, finally, specifics such as GPS and motion sensing. Projects will be d...
CSC 446	Computer Architecture	Instruction formats and addressing schemes. Arithmetic and logic unit design. Control unit design: hardwired and microprogrammed. Main memory technology. Virtual, high-speed, associative, and read-only memories. Programmable logic arrays. Computer or...
CSC 450	Honors Workshop	Students, with the approval of the department, work in teams on large-scale projects. Prerequisites: Computer Science major with senior standing and departmental approval.
CSC 455	Neuromorphic Computing	Neuromorphic computing focuses on designing algorithms, electronic circuits and systems inspired by the brain?s neural structure and its mechanisms for processing information. This course examines this emerging field from the perspective of the scien...
CSC 462	Microcontrollers	Introduction to microcontrollers with an overview of the CPU architecture, instruction set, interface with target board, testing and program development using Assembly and C languages. Interrupts and interrupt timing, analog-to-digital conversion, ca...
CSC 470	Introductory Computer Graphics	Introduction to the basic concepts and techniques of interactive computer graphics including the hardware and software components of computer graphics systems and mathematical handling of graphical objects. Algorithms for two-dimensional and three-di...
CSC 475	Image Processing in Computer Science	An introduction to the basic computational techniques and algorithms of digital image/video processing. The student will learn modern approaches to image acquisition, image enhancement, image compression, and image analysis.
CSC 480	Artificial Intelligence	General introduction to artificial intelligence. Topics may include intelligent agents, search methods, heuristics, machine learning, logic and robotics. Current topics in artificial intelligence will be introduced.
CSC 482	Discrete Simulation	Introduction to simulation. Discrete simulation models. Review of basic probability and statistics. Random number generation. Design of simulation experiments. Analysis of data gathered. Simulation programming and languages. Application of simulation...
CSC 484	Theory of Computation	The notion of an algorithm. Primitive recursive and partial recursive functions. Turing machines and other models of computation. Markov algorithms. Church thesis. Godel numberings and unsolvability results. Halting problem. Post correspondence probl...
CSC 490	Seminar in Computer Science	Invited speakers and students will lead discussions on the ethical and societal impact of the computer. Students will write and present papers on current research topics in the computing field. (Liberal Arts & Science)
CSC 515	Data Science	Basic techniques of data science. Topics include SQL and NoSQL solutions for massive data management (e.g., MapReduce and contemporaries), algorithms for data mining (e.g., clustering and association rule mining), and basic statistical modeling (e.g...
