Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)
We are excited to host this unique Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Site at the College of Staten Island in collaboration with Hunter College. This REU Site will give students a great opportunity to tackle challenging and practical projects requiring parallelism, with the technical support from The City University of New York High Performance Computing Center (CUNY HPCC), while learning theoretical concepts and programming techniques (e.g., heuristics, exact methods of evaluation) in different research areas of computational sciences.
Computer Science / Engineering Science and Physics Building
1N-215
Willowbrook Campus
Department Contact
Shuqun Zhang
Chairperson and Professor

Phone: 718.982.2839
Email Shuqun Zhang
Joanne Morris
Administrative Assistant

Phone: 718.982.2850
Email Joanne Morris
Laurie Guido
College Assistant

Phone: 718.982.2850
Email Laurie Guido

Computer Science Department Overview
The Computer Science Department offers programs that prepare students for careers as computer professionals and/or for continued study. The major provides a broad-based background in computer science and includes courses in computer software, computer systems, mathematics, network security, and computer hardware. We are committed to offering courses that stay current with changing technologies. Our BS degree is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology which means our program meets the highest national standards.

Upcoming Events
The Tech Talent Pipeline Residency Program is accepting applications for its 4th Cohort in February 2023.  

The Tech Talent Pipeline Residency@CSI gives computer science majors training in software engineering and web-development skills, professional development soft skills, tech industry experience in the form of internships, and career services to support full-time employment.  

Begun in the Summer of 2020 and administered by the Department of Economic Development, Continuing Studies, and Government Relations, TTP has placed more than 85 students in 3 months paid internships as software engineers or web and mobile developers at leading companies like AMEX, CLOROX, and Pixida USA. When they complete the internship phase students receive 1:1 career service support to land full-time tech jobs.  Graduates of the program have landed full-time software engineering-related roles at Amazon, Microsoft, FourSquare, Citibank, Disney, Loews, and Facebook to name a few.  

In addition to submitting an application, students must submit a resume and transcripts, and participate in an interview to be considered for selection. For assistance with resumes contact the Center for Career and Professional Development.  For more information about the program, students can contact the Tech Talent Pipeline Program Manager Sabine Salandy 

What are obtainable jobs with Computer Science degrees?
Applications Development Manager/Architect Artificial Intelligence Research Scientist Business Intelligence Analyst Cloud Product Manager Computer & Information System Manager Computer Graphics Specialist Computer Hardware Engineer Computer Programmer

featured
Bureau Labor Statistics
489,000 new jobs in Computer Science-related fields by 2024.
2015 median annual wage of software developers $101,690
featured
Specializations In:
Game Development
Networking and Security
featured
BS in Computer Science
Has been continuously accredited since 1989.
Programs in Computer Science Department
Computer Technology (AAS)
Computer Science – Mathematics (BS)
Master of Science in Computer Science (MS)
Computer Science (BS)
Information Systems and Informatics (BS)
Computer Science (PhD)
Computer Science News

